AWS EC2

Amazon Elastic compute cloud is a web service that provide the secure, resizeble compute capacity in the cloud, on demand scable infra and availabity of 99.99%.
provide the secure compute for the application. Security is built into the foundation of Amazon EC2 with the AWS Nitro System.
Optimize performance and cost with flexible options like AWS Graviton-based instances, Amazon EC2 Spot instances, and AWS Savings Plans.


usecase
Deliver secure, reliable, high-performance, and cost-effective compute infrastructure to meet demanding business needs.
Access the on-demand infrastructure and capacity you need to run HPC applications faster and cost-effectively.
Access environments in minutes, dynamically scale capacity as needed, and benefit from AWS’s pay-as-you-go pricing.
Deliver the broadest choice of compute, networking (up to 400 Gbps), and storage services purpose-built to optimize price performance for ML projects.

Types of EC2 Instance:

Genernal purpose:
General Purpose instances are designed to deliver a balance of compute, memory, and network resources. They are suitable for a wide range of applications, including web servers,
small databases, development and test environments, and more.

Compute Optimized :
Compute Optimized instances provide a higher ratio of compute power to memory. They excel in workloads that require high-performance processing such as batch processing, 
scientific modeling, gaming servers, and high-performance web servers.

Memory Optimized :
Memory Optimized instances are designed to handle memory-intensive workloads. They are suitable for applications that require large amounts of memory, such as in-memory databases,
real-time big data analytics, and high-performance computing.

Storage Optimized :
Storage Optimized instances are optimized for applications that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets. 
They are ideal for tasks like data warehousing, log processing, and distributed file systems.

Accelerated Computing Instances :
Accelerated Computing Instances typically come with one or more types of accelerators, such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs),
Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), or custom Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs). 
These accelerators offload computationally intensive tasks from the main CPU, enabling faster and more efficient processing for specific workloads.

on demand instnace :
its proviided at fixed price and garentee availbilty.

Reserverd instnace :
Its provide the saving plans as the price is less than on-demand instnace,  as its reservation of resources and capacity, for either one or three years, for a particular availability zone within a region.

spot instance :
ec2 instance created with unused compute capacity and its less price than on demand.

